# Creditworthiness_Analysis
# General Overview 



# Credit Risk Analysis Report

## Overview 

The purpose of analysis to build a model that can identify the creditworthiness of borrowers. The lending data provided, like most data available in this industry, is heavily weighted to healthy loans. Because of this two models were used in this analysis, both using a Linear Regression algrorithms, one was adjusted to oversample the data to observe any possible changes in performance that maybe rooted in the underrepresented nature of high-risk loans in the data. 

In order for the models to perform, the data was separated between training and testing sets. Each model tested used a SkLearn LogisticRegression modeling to perform. Subsequently,trained the training dataset and recorded the predictions of the tested data. The predictions are generated by the model and used to verify accuracy. The accuracy for the first model, was .95 while the accuracy for the resampled second model was .99. The difference between the two datasets can be seen in the sample size, which I used `value_counts`to display these figures. In the resampled second model the oversampling adjusted the sample of high-risk loans to healthy loans.

## Results

Using bulleted lists, describe the balanced accuracy scores and the precision and recall scores of all machine learning models.

* Machine Learning Model 1:
Original sample of data 
                      pre       rec       spe        f1       geo       iba       sup

  Healthy loan       1.00      0.99      0.91      1.00      0.95      0.91     18765
High-risk loan       0.85      0.91      0.99      0.88      0.95      0.90       619

   avg / total       0.99      0.99      0.91      0.99      0.95      0.91     19384

The model shows that the precision for identifying healthy loans is perfect, conversely the precision in identifying high-risk loans is low at 85%. This is a potential exposure of 15%, which can be very risky for a bank. The recall of healthy loans is very good, confirming majority of healthly loans are identified by the model, but again conversely the high-risk loans, with a score of 91%, confirms that there are a significant amount of customers that will be high risk loans that the model will identify as healthy loans. And lastly, when reviewing the F1 score, Healthy loans score reflects that there is both high precision and high recall, while High-risk loans had a low score indicating that the model was not able to correctly identify positive cases while avoiding false positives and false negatives. Overall, the model sampling method did not perform well with the current lending data from a risk management prespective.

* Machine Learning Model 2:
Resampled data using RandomOverSampler
 pre       rec       spe        f1       geo       iba       sup

  Healthy loan       1.00      0.99      0.99      1.00      0.99      0.99     18765
High-risk loan       0.84      0.99      0.99      0.91      0.99      0.99       619

   avg / total       0.99      0.99      0.99      0.99      0.99      0.99     19384

The logistic regression model above fit better with oversampled data. There was an improvement in recall and F1 score. The precision did not really change, but recall score improved from 91% to 99% and F1 from 88% to 91% which is a slight improvement. 

## Summary

Overall, using the recall score to determine which model worked best, the oversampled data model performed better than the model with the standard sampling, the accuracy to identify high-risk loans improved substantially, which is important for lenders when mitigating loss exposure. Having about 1% of exposure is 9 times better than 9%. After running both models it is evident that the oversampled second model performed better than the first model in predicting high-risk loans, which means that it would be a better model to use identify high-risk loans with the most accuracy.